README.md, before:

A guide to computational social science resources
=================================================
A collection of resources and readings for people wanting to get acquainted with computational social science. This started out as a way for us to collect resources that we found useful or interesting. Credit goes to @andrewnolanhall for pitching the idea at [Data Science Nights@Northwestern](http://www.data-science-nights.org/). Links to similar collections at the bottom. Text in quotes is taken directly from the website or document. The rest is our editorializing. Suggestions welcome. WIP.

Ideas to gather resources for this guide: 
- [Syllabus](https://www.bitbybitbook.com) included to access readings alongside Bit by Bit book 
- Perspectives on Computational Analysis [Syllabus](https://github.com/UC-MACSS/persp-analysis)


### Training
[Starting from zero, Data Carpentry workshop](https://datacarpentry.org/r-socialsci/): "This is an introduction to R designed for participants with no programming experience. These lessons can be taught in a day (~ 6 hours). They start with some basic information about R syntax, the RStudio interface, and move through how to import CSV files, the structure of data frames, how to deal with factors, how to add/remove rows and columns, how to calculate summary statistics from a data frame, and a brief introduction to plotting."

These resources are intended for in-person workshops but can be used by self-learners.

[DataCamp](https://www.datacamp.com)

[DataCamp for Northwestern University students](https://www.it.northwestern.edu/research/campus-events/data-camp.html)

[Garret Grolemund, Hadley Wickham, _R for Data Science_](http://r4ds.had.co.nz/)

[Chromebook Data Science project](http://jhudatascience.org/chromebookdatascience/cbds.html): "Chromebook Data Science (CBDS) is an online educational program to help anyone who can read, write, and use a computer to move into data science. It is offered by faculty members in the Johns Hopkins Department of Biostatistics, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. There are currently 12 courses that are offered in the Chromebook Data Science Curriculum."

[UK Data Service Data Skills Modules](https://www.ukdataservice.ac.uk/use-data/data-skills-modules): "These introductory level interactive modules are designed for users who want to get to grips with keys aspects of survey, longitudinal and aggregate data."

[Scipy Lecture Notes](www.scipy-lectures.org) "Tutorials on the scientific Python ecosystem: a quick introduction to central tools and techniques. The different chapters each correspond to a 1 to 2 hours course with increasing level of expertise, from beginner to expert."

### Reading lists

#### Reading list - General
[Matthew Sagalnik, _Bit by bit_](https://www.bitbybitbook.com/en/1st-ed/preface/)

[Matthew Sagalnik, _Bit by bit_ (tree version)](https://press.princeton.edu/titles/11057.html)

[Bernard E. Harcourt, _Against Prediction_ (tree version)](https://www.press.uchicago.edu/ucp/books/book/chicago/A/bo4101022.html) Summary: _Against Prediction_ argues that predictive policing models not “crime” but “arrests”, i.e. police behavior, not the supposed underlying behavior (not what crimes will happen where, but who will be arrested). Therefore, it will reinforce existing trends in policing instead of “improving” policing.

[Bernard E. Harcourt, _Against Prediction_ (working paper)](http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=756945)

[Bernard E. Harcourt, _Against Prediction_; review by Cosma Shalizi](http://bactra.org/reviews/against-prediction/)

[Thoughts on algorithmic fairness](http://joshualoftus.com/post/algorithmic-fairness-is-as-hard-as-causation/): "Algorithmic fairness is an interdisciplinary research field concerned with the various ways that algorithms may perpetuate or reinforce unfair legacies of our history, and how we might modify the alorithms or systems they are used in to prevent this. For example, if the training data used in a machine learning methods contains patterns caused by things like racism, sexism, ableism, or other types of injustice, then the model may learn those patterns and use them to make predictions and decisions that are unfair. There are many ways that technology can have unintended consequences, and this is just one of them."

#### Reading list - Methods
[Claus Witte, _Fundamentals of Data Visualization_](https://serialmentor.com/dataviz/)

[Claus Witte, _Fundamentals of Data Visualization_ (R markdown source)](https://github.com/clauswilke/dataviz)

[Kieran J. Healy, _Data Visualization - A practical introduction_](http://socviz.co/)

[Garret Grolemund, Hadley Wickham, _R for Data Science_](http://r4ds.had.co.nz/)

[Quartz guide to real world data munging problems](https://github.com/Quartz/bad-data-guide)

#### Reading list - CSS Applications in Psychology

#### Reading list - CSS Applications in Sociology

#### Reading list - CSS Applications in Political Science

### Data sets and sources
[Google tool for finding datasets](https://toolbox.google.com/datasetsearch)

[Cook County Open Data portal](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/)
 
[Cook County Open Data - State Attorney (e.g. arrest data)](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/browse?tags=state%27s%20attorney%20case-level)

[Wesleyan Media Project](http://mediaproject.wesleyan.edu/): "The Wesleyan Media Project tracks and analyzes all broadcast advertisements aired by or on behalf of federal and state election candidates in every media market in the country."

[The Stanford Open Policing Project](https://openpolicing.stanford.edu/): "Our team is gathering, analyzing, and releasing records from millions of traffic stops by law enforcement agencies across the country."


### People, groups, hashtags
[List of sociologists online, by Philip N. Cohen](https://twitter.com/familyunequal/lists/sociologists)

`#rladies`

`#rstats`

### Similar collections
[R resources collection, NU Research Computing Services](https://github.com/nuitrcs/rworkshops)

[Python resources collection, NU Research Computing Services](https://github.com/nuitrcs/pythonworkshops)

Commit message:

Add R for Stata users. Some editing.

README.md, after:

A guide to computational social science resources
=================================================
A collection of resources and readings for people wanting to get acquainted with computational social science. This started out as a way for us to collect resources that we found useful or interesting. Credit goes to @andrewnolanhall for pitching the idea at [Data Science Nights@Northwestern](http://www.data-science-nights.org/). Links to similar collections at the bottom. Text in quotes is taken directly from the website or document. The rest is our editorializing. Suggestions welcome. WIP.

Ideas to gather resources for this guide: 
- [Syllabus](https://www.bitbybitbook.com) included to access readings alongside Bit by Bit book 
- Perspectives on Computational Analysis [Syllabus](https://github.com/UC-MACSS/persp-analysis)


### Training
[Starting from zero, Data Carpentry workshop](https://datacarpentry.org/r-socialsci/): "This is an introduction to R designed for participants with no programming experience. These lessons can be taught in a day (~ 6 hours). They start with some basic information about R syntax, the RStudio interface, and move through how to import CSV files, the structure of data frames, how to deal with factors, how to add/remove rows and columns, how to calculate summary statistics from a data frame, and a brief introduction to plotting."

These resources are intended for in-person workshops but can be used by self-learners.

[DataCamp](https://www.datacamp.com)

[DataCamp for Northwestern University students](https://www.it.northwestern.edu/research/campus-events/data-camp.html)

[Garret Grolemund, Hadley Wickham, _R for Data Science_](http://r4ds.had.co.nz/)

[Chromebook Data Science project](http://jhudatascience.org/chromebookdatascience/cbds.html): "Chromebook Data Science (CBDS) is an online educational program to help anyone who can read, write, and use a computer to move into data science. It is offered by faculty members in the Johns Hopkins Department of Biostatistics, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. There are currently 12 courses that are offered in the Chromebook Data Science Curriculum."

[UK Data Service Data Skills Modules](https://www.ukdataservice.ac.uk/use-data/data-skills-modules): "These introductory level interactive modules are designed for users who want to get to grips with keys aspects of survey, longitudinal and aggregate data."

[Scipy Lecture Notes](www.scipy-lectures.org) "Tutorials on the scientific Python ecosystem: a quick introduction to central tools and techniques. The different chapters each correspond to a 1 to 2 hours course with increasing level of expertise, from beginner to expert."

For people coming from `Stata` and wanting to learn `R`: [R for Stata users](http://r4stats.com/books/r4stata/). An earlier draft is available for free.

### Reading lists
#### General
[Matthew Sagalnik, _Bit by bit_](https://www.bitbybitbook.com/en/1st-ed/preface/)

[Matthew Sagalnik, _Bit by bit_ (tree version)](https://press.princeton.edu/titles/11057.html)

[Bernard E. Harcourt, _Against Prediction_ (tree version)](https://www.press.uchicago.edu/ucp/books/book/chicago/A/bo4101022.html) Summary: _Against Prediction_ argues that predictive policing models not “crime” but “arrests”, i.e. police behavior, not the supposed underlying behavior (not what crimes will happen where, but who will be arrested). Therefore, it will reinforce existing trends in policing instead of “improving” policing.

[Bernard E. Harcourt, _Against Prediction_ (working paper)](http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=756945)

[Bernard E. Harcourt, _Against Prediction_; review by Cosma Shalizi](http://bactra.org/reviews/against-prediction/)

[Thoughts on algorithmic fairness](http://joshualoftus.com/post/algorithmic-fairness-is-as-hard-as-causation/): "Algorithmic fairness is an interdisciplinary research field concerned with the various ways that algorithms may perpetuate or reinforce unfair legacies of our history, and how we might modify the alorithms or systems they are used in to prevent this. For example, if the training data used in a machine learning methods contains patterns caused by things like racism, sexism, ableism, or other types of injustice, then the model may learn those patterns and use them to make predictions and decisions that are unfair. There are many ways that technology can have unintended consequences, and this is just one of them."

#### Methods
[Claus Witte, _Fundamentals of Data Visualization_](https://serialmentor.com/dataviz/)

[Claus Witte, _Fundamentals of Data Visualization_ (R markdown source)](https://github.com/clauswilke/dataviz)

[Kieran J. Healy, _Data Visualization - A practical introduction_](http://socviz.co/)

[Garret Grolemund, Hadley Wickham, _R for Data Science_](http://r4ds.had.co.nz/)

[Quartz guide to real world data munging problems](https://github.com/Quartz/bad-data-guide)

### Ethics
[Notes from @DynamicWebPaige on Google's ML Fairness course](https://github.com/dynamicwebpaige/info/blob/master/blog/online_courses/20-10-2018_AI_Ethics.md)

#### Reading list - CSS Applications in Psychology

#### Reading list - CSS Applications in Sociology

#### Reading list - CSS Applications in Political Science

### Data sets, sources, and software
[Google tool for finding datasets](https://toolbox.google.com/datasetsearch)

[Cook County Open Data portal](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/)
 
[Cook County Open Data - State Attorney (e.g. arrest data)](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/browse?tags=state%27s%20attorney%20case-level)

[Wesleyan Media Project](http://mediaproject.wesleyan.edu/): "The Wesleyan Media Project tracks and analyzes all broadcast advertisements aired by or on behalf of federal and state election candidates in every media market in the country."

[The Stanford Open Policing Project](https://openpolicing.stanford.edu/): "Our team is gathering, analyzing, and releasing records from millions of traffic stops by law enforcement agencies across the country."

[The @unitedstates project](https://theunitedstates.io/) Scrapers and parsers for many aspects regarding Congress, e.g. bios of members past and present, data about bills and roll call votes, district shapefiles, and much more.

[Congressional record parser](https://github.com/unitedstates/congressional-record): "This tool converts HTML files containing the text of the Congressional Record into structured text data. It is particularly useful for identifying speeches by members of Congress."

### People, groups, hashtags
[List of sociologists online, by Philip N. Cohen](https://twitter.com/familyunequal/lists/sociologists)

`#rladies`

`#rstats`

### Similar collections
[R resources collection, NU Research Computing Services](https://github.com/nuitrcs/rworkshops)

[Python resources collection, NU Research Computing Services](https://github.com/nuitrcs/pythonworkshops)

[OpenIntro, free textbooks](https://twitter.com/OpenIntroOrg)
